README-PACKAGE-REPO.md, before:

# Debian package repository

We use `aptly` to maintain the Debian package repository. For more information
about aptly refer to the official home page at [aptly.info](http://aptly.info)

## Overview

aptly maintains a internal database. Currently this repository is stored on
feeds1.toradex.com. A separate user `debian` to maintian the Debian package
repository has been created. Similarly a `debian` user exists on
feeds2.toradex.com, however on feeds2 aptly is not required as we only serve the
deployed repository using http.

The `debian` user as well as its home directory is used to maintain the Debian
repository. The aptly database and package storage is in the default location in
~/.aptly/. The user also has the GPG private key installed.

## Setup

Note: This steps are only required to setup the repository the first time.

Initialize a new repository for testing:
```
aptly repo create -comment="Toradex testing repository" testing
```

Add the following section to `aptly.conf`
```
  "FileSystemPublishEndpoints": {
    "toradex-feeds": {
      "rootDir": "/srv/opkg/debian/",
      "linkMethod": "copy"
    }
  }
```



## Add package

Copy the packages onto the server (make sure to upload all files referenced in
the source dsc file!):
```
scp libdrm_2.4.91-2+toradex1.dsc debian@feeds1.toradex.com:import/
scp libdrm_2.4.91.orig.tar.gz debian@feeds1.toradex.com:import/
scp libdrm_2.4.91-2+toradex1.diff.gz debian@feeds1.toradex.com:import/
scp libdrm*2.4.91-2+toradex1_arm64.deb debian@feeds1.toradex.com:import/
```

Add source as well as binary package files:
```
aptly repo add testing import/libdrm_2.4.91-2+toradex1.dsc
aptly repo add testing import/libdrm*2.4.91-2+toradex1_arm64.deb
```

The current list of packages in the repository can be checked with:
```
aptly repo show -with-packages testing
```

## Publish

To get a list of published repositories:
```
aptly publish list
```

### Publish new repository

Note: This is only required the first time for each repository.

```
aptly publish repo -distribution=buster -gpg-key=torizoncore@toradex.com \
  testing filesystem:toradex-feeds:testing
```
### Update published repository

When adding/removing packages, the published repository needs updating:

```
aptly publish update buster filesystem:toradex-feeds:testing
```

Commit message:

update instructions to support multiple architectures
update instructions about package add to include architectures and
clarify that instructions in the main README.md files are about testing
feed on development environment, not about publishing on our official feed.

Signed-off-by: Valter Minute <valter.minute@toradex.com>

README-PACKAGE-REPO.md, after:

# Debian package repository

We use `aptly` to maintain the Debian package repository. For more information
about aptly refer to the official home page at [aptly.info](http://aptly.info)

## Overview

aptly maintains a internal database. Currently this repository is stored on
feeds1.toradex.com. A separate user `debian` to maintian the Debian package
repository has been created. Similarly a `debian` user exists on
feeds2.toradex.com, however on feeds2 aptly is not required as we only serve the
deployed repository using http.

The `debian` user as well as its home directory is used to maintain the Debian
repository. The aptly database and package storage is in the default location in
~/.aptly/. The user also has the GPG private key installed.

## Setup

Note: This steps are only required to setup the repository the first time.

Initialize a new repository for testing:
```
aptly repo create -comment="Toradex testing repository" testing
```

Add the following section to `aptly.conf`
```
  "FileSystemPublishEndpoints": {
    "toradex-feeds": {
      "rootDir": "/srv/opkg/debian/",
      "linkMethod": "copy"
    }
  }
```
## Add package

Copy the packages onto the server (make sure to upload all files referenced in
the source dsc file!):
```
scp libdrm_2.4.91-2+toradex1.dsc debian@feeds1.toradex.com:import/
scp libdrm_2.4.91.orig.tar.gz debian@feeds1.toradex.com:import/
scp libdrm_2.4.91-2+toradex1.diff.gz debian@feeds1.toradex.com:import/
scp libdrm*2.4.91-2+toradex1_arm64.deb debian@feeds1.toradex.com:import/
```

Add source as well as binary package files:
```
aptly repo add testing import/libdrm_2.4.91-2+toradex1.dsc
aptly repo add --architectures="arm64" testing import/libdrm*2.4.91-2+toradex1_arm64.deb
```

For binary packages you will have to specify the architecture with "--architectures", otherwise you will end up with packages in the wrong folders.  
Current our repository supports armhf and arm64 packages, to add a new architecture you'll have to unpublish the feed and re-publish it again after having added all the packages for the new architecture.  

The current list of packages in the repository can be checked with:
```
aptly repo show -with-packages testing
```
or
```
aptly repo query
```

## Publish

To get a list of published repositories:
```
aptly publish list
```

### Publish new repository

Note: This is only required the first time for each repository.

```
aptly publish repo -distribution=buster -gpg-key=torizoncore@toradex.com \
  testing 
  
```
### Update published repository

When adding/removing packages, the published repository needs updating:

```
aptly publish update buster filesystem:toradex-feeds:testing
```

(the password for the gpg key associated with torizoncore@toradex.com is required to complete the update)
