README.md, before:

# Torizon Containers

This repository contains container images used by or with
[Torizon OS](https://www.torizon.io), the Easy-to-use Industrial Linux Software 
Platform.

This repository provides images that need to be maintained over time with or
without hardware acceleration inside the containers - provided by the custom
package feeds also maintained by Toradex.

When hardware acceleration is needed, we stratify by what we call "platforms",
which are the different SoCs families. For example, one of the families is
`imx8`, which includes all variantes of this processor such as `imx8mm`,
`imx8mp` etc.

We also support what we call "upstream" images, which are images where hardware
acceleration support comes from the upstream Debian feeds, although we may have
one or two custom packages introduced there as well, which are hopefully
upstreamed over time.

## Release Cycle

`torizon-containers` may have many active branches at any given point in time.
These track the different releases of Torizon OS we either support or integrate
for.

Our naming scheme for the branches determines which Torizon OS is supported by
which branch:

- oldstable: the LTS release of Torizon OS.
- stable: the current release of Torizon OS.
- next: the future release of Torizon OS.

As an example:

- oldstable: tracks TorizonCore 5.x.y based on the Dunfell Yocto release.
- stable: trackes Torizon OS 6.x.y based on the Kirkstone Yocto Release.
- next: tracks Torizon OS 7.x.y based on the Scarthgap Yocto Release.

Thus there's always an one-to-one relationship between a major Torizon OS
release and a given Torizon Containers Release.

Please note that this naming **does not have any relationship with the Debian
releases**. Our `stable` may be based off Debian's `oldstable` if there's
a compelling technical reason to do so.

Containers are pushed to [Torizon DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/u/torizon),
and all containers are versioning following
[Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/).

## Release Candidates

We use a Release Candidate scheme for **every branch**, meaning when a build
pipeline runs, it actually pushes images with `<image-name>:<branch-name>-rc`.

Release Candidates allow us to test all branches independently before making a
release, which for us is re-tagging a golden container image from
`<image-name>:<branch-name>-rc` to `<image-name>:<major>.<minor>.<patch>`.

So if there is a patch release of a Torizon OS LTS version, we can test it and
make necessary adjustments without disrupting other branches. Every release is
independent of each other, tracked by a branch.

When a new Torizon OS version is released, we fork from the `next` branch to
`stable`, rename `stable` to `oldstable` and drop `oldstable` (or even rename it
to `oldoldstable` if needed).

This process is implemented using GitLab CI and it's fairly segmented between
the stages, looking from the pipeline YAML definitions:

- [Main build pipeline](.gitlab-ci.yml) which pushes images to DockerHub with
 `<image-name>:<branch-name>-rc`.
- [Test Pipeline](ci-scripts/test/test.yml) which runs integration tests on real
hardware using the Aval Framework and the Torizon Cloud API.
- [Release Pipeline](ci-scripts/release/release.yml) which retags images from
`<image-name>:<branch-name>-rc` to `<image-name>:<major>.<minor>.<patch>` using
the [versioning metadata](ci-scripts/container-versions) tracked by the repo.

## Developing

Users are not expected to build their own images from this repository, as it's
fairly optimized may be too complicated to build from the CLI. Nonetheless, one
must be able to do this when developing for `torizon-containers` itself.

Each directory (ignoring `platform-specific`) symlinks files that are to be
included in the image to `support-files`, so multiple builds can use the same
Dockerfile defition, though installing different packages because of the
different package feeds.

To build an image, one can use the 
[phemmer trick](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/6094#issuecomment-54556720)
to resolve the symlinks with tar and pipe everything as the build context to
`docker build`.

For example, if I wish to build the base Docker for the iMX8 platform, from the
`base` folder run:

```
tar -ch . | docker buildx build \
--build-arg DEBIAN_POINT_RELEASE="12.6" \
--build-arg REGISTRY_PROXY="docker.io" \
--build-arg TORADEX_FEED_URL="https://feeds.toradex.com/stable/imx8/" \
-t base -
```

## Testing

Torizon Containers are tested in two levels:

- [Integration tests](ci-scripts/test/aval-tests.yml) using the
[Aval Framework](https://github.com/torizon/aval), which is our own orchestrator
built on top of Torizon Cloud. These tests run from a board farm maintained by
Toradex.

Integration tests are written in bash using bats and are
[divided in suites](tests/suites/) corresponding each of the SoC platforms we
support. We package everything in a Docker image and tell Aval to run this
image to a board that matches our configuration. Within the `docker run...`
statement we tell Aval to execute we mount the docker socket of the daemon
running on the host Torizon OS which enables the subsequent `docker pulls` from
the various `setup_suite.bash` to pull the image currently being tested.

A helper [`run-tests.sh`](tests/suites/run-tests.sh) script is used to crawl
through each of the tests inside a given suite, sequencially run each bats test
and report a JUnit.xml `report.xml` file that is picked up by Aval via ssh over
to the `report: junit:` field in
[`aval-tests.yml`](ci-scripts/test/aval-tests.yml), providing a visual
representation of which tests passed/failed from the GitLab UI.

- Functional tests: these are for testing things like "is the correct version of
dotnet installed?" or other basic checks for versions etc. Anything that can be
easily tested on common runners (amd64, generally) and is not hardware-dependent
is a functional test. Test pipelines are any `*-tests.yml`
[here](ci-scripts/test/) that are not the the Aval tests.

## Architecture Glossary

In the context of the [cross-toolchain images](cross-toolchain), we use the
following definitions:

| Architecture        | Equivalent Cross Toolchain Container |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------|
| ARMv7 with VFP3-D16 | cross-toolchain-arm                  |
| ARMv8-A             | cross-toolchain-arm64{-imx8, -am62}  |

In the context of the architecture for all Container Images, we use the
following definitions:

| Architecture               | Container Image Architecture |
|----------------------------|------------------------------|
| ARMv7 with VFP3-D16        | linux/arm/v7                 |
| ARMv8-A                    | linux/arm64/v8               |
| x86_64 (also called amd64) | linux/amd64                  |

Commit message:

Add linter from the build templates and small section on README
Signed-off-by: Leonardo Held <leonardo.held@toradex.com>

README.md, after:

# Torizon Containers

This repository contains container images used by or with
[Torizon OS](https://www.torizon.io), the Easy-to-use Industrial Linux Software 
Platform.

This repository provides images that need to be maintained over time with or
without hardware acceleration inside the containers - provided by the custom
package feeds also maintained by Toradex.

When hardware acceleration is needed, we stratify by what we call "platforms",
which are the different SoCs families. For example, one of the families is
`imx8`, which includes all variantes of this processor such as `imx8mm`,
`imx8mp` etc.

We also support what we call "upstream" images, which are images where hardware
acceleration support comes from the upstream Debian feeds, although we may have
one or two custom packages introduced there as well, which are hopefully
upstreamed over time.

## Release Cycle

`torizon-containers` may have many active branches at any given point in time.
These track the different releases of Torizon OS we either support or integrate
for.

Our naming scheme for the branches determines which Torizon OS is supported by
which branch:

- oldstable: the LTS release of Torizon OS.
- stable: the current release of Torizon OS.
- next: the future release of Torizon OS.

As an example:

- oldstable: tracks TorizonCore 5.x.y based on the Dunfell Yocto release.
- stable: trackes Torizon OS 6.x.y based on the Kirkstone Yocto Release.
- next: tracks Torizon OS 7.x.y based on the Scarthgap Yocto Release.

Thus there's always an one-to-one relationship between a major Torizon OS
release and a given Torizon Containers Release.

Please note that this naming **does not have any relationship with the Debian
releases**. Our `stable` may be based off Debian's `oldstable` if there's
a compelling technical reason to do so.

Containers are pushed to [Torizon DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/u/torizon),
and all containers are versioning following
[Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/).

## Release Candidates

We use a Release Candidate scheme for **every branch**, meaning when a build
pipeline runs, it actually pushes images with `<image-name>:<branch-name>-rc`.

Release Candidates allow us to test all branches independently before making a
release, which for us is re-tagging a golden container image from
`<image-name>:<branch-name>-rc` to `<image-name>:<major>.<minor>.<patch>`.

So if there is a patch release of a Torizon OS LTS version, we can test it and
make necessary adjustments without disrupting other branches. Every release is
independent of each other, tracked by a branch.

When a new Torizon OS version is released, we fork from the `next` branch to
`stable`, rename `stable` to `oldstable` and drop `oldstable` (or even rename it
to `oldoldstable` if needed).

This process is implemented using GitLab CI and it's fairly segmented between
the stages, looking from the pipeline YAML definitions:

- [Main build pipeline](.gitlab-ci.yml) which pushes images to DockerHub with
 `<image-name>:<branch-name>-rc`.
- [Test Pipeline](ci-scripts/test/test.yml) which runs integration tests on real
hardware using the Aval Framework and the Torizon Cloud API.
- [Release Pipeline](ci-scripts/release/release.yml) which retags images from
`<image-name>:<branch-name>-rc` to `<image-name>:<major>.<minor>.<patch>` using
the [versioning metadata](ci-scripts/container-versions) tracked by the repo.

## Developing

Users are not expected to build their own images from this repository, as it's
fairly optimized may be too complicated to build from the CLI. Nonetheless, one
must be able to do this when developing for `torizon-containers` itself.

Each directory (ignoring `platform-specific`) symlinks files that are to be
included in the image to `support-files`, so multiple builds can use the same
Dockerfile defition, though installing different packages because of the
different package feeds.

To build an image, one can use the 
[phemmer trick](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/6094#issuecomment-54556720)
to resolve the symlinks with tar and pipe everything as the build context to
`docker build`.

For example, if I wish to build the base Docker for the iMX8 platform, from the
`base` folder run:

```
tar -ch . | docker buildx build \
--build-arg DEBIAN_POINT_RELEASE="12.6" \
--build-arg REGISTRY_PROXY="docker.io" \
--build-arg TORADEX_FEED_URL="https://feeds.toradex.com/stable/imx8/" \
-t base -
```

### Linting

Inside the [lint](ci-scripts/lint/) directory you'll find several small scripts
that are meta-build checks, meaning they check the files for the build of the
images themselves, such as the YAML files for GitLab CI or the Dockerfiles.

The rule of thumb is that every time you encounter a bug that could have been
caught with a meta-linting test, you fix that bug and write the test. Preventing
regressions during build time is imperative for the well-being of this project.

## Testing

Torizon Containers are tested in two levels:

- [Integration tests](ci-scripts/test/aval-tests.yml) using the
[Aval Framework](https://github.com/torizon/aval), which is our own orchestrator
built on top of Torizon Cloud. These tests run from a board farm maintained by
Toradex.

Integration tests are written in bash using bats and are
[divided in suites](tests/suites/) corresponding each of the SoC platforms we
support. We package everything in a Docker image and tell Aval to run this
image to a board that matches our configuration. Within the `docker run...`
statement we tell Aval to execute we mount the docker socket of the daemon
running on the host Torizon OS which enables the subsequent `docker pulls` from
the various `setup_suite.bash` to pull the image currently being tested.

A helper [`run-tests.sh`](tests/suites/run-tests.sh) script is used to crawl
through each of the tests inside a given suite, sequencially run each bats test
and report a JUnit.xml `report.xml` file that is picked up by Aval via ssh over
to the `report: junit:` field in
[`aval-tests.yml`](ci-scripts/test/aval-tests.yml), providing a visual
representation of which tests passed/failed from the GitLab UI.

- Functional tests: these are for testing things like "is the correct version of
dotnet installed?" or other basic checks for versions etc. Anything that can be
easily tested on common runners (amd64, generally) and is not hardware-dependent
is a functional test. Test pipelines are any `*-tests.yml`
[here](ci-scripts/test/) that are not the the Aval tests.

## Architecture Glossary

In the context of the [cross-toolchain images](cross-toolchain), we use the
following definitions:

| Architecture        | Equivalent Cross Toolchain Container |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------|
| ARMv7 with VFP3-D16 | cross-toolchain-arm                  |
| ARMv8-A             | cross-toolchain-arm64{-imx8, -am62}  |

In the context of the architecture for all Container Images, we use the
following definitions:

| Architecture               | Container Image Architecture |
|----------------------------|------------------------------|
| ARMv7 with VFP3-D16        | linux/arm/v7                 |
| ARMv8-A                    | linux/arm64/v8               |
| x86_64 (also called amd64) | linux/amd64                  |
