rt-validation/README.md, before:

# rt-validation

Containers to validate real-time (`PREEMPT_RT`) support in TorizonCore.

The `stress-tests` container will run stress tests (CPU, memory, I/O) in the device.

The `rt-tests` container will run `cyclictest` and generate a report of the measured latency.


# Prepare the device for the tests

Make sure you are running a `PREEMPT_RT` version of TorizonCore:
```
$ cat /etc/os-release | grep PREEMPT_RT
NAME="Torizoncore Upstream with PREEMPT_RT"
PRETTY_NAME="Torizoncore Upstream with PREEMPT_RT 5.1.0-devel-20201216+build.152 (dunfell)"
```

Make sure the device is connected to the internet (needed to generate network load):

```
$ ping -c 3 8.8.8.8
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8): 56 data bytes
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: seq=0 ttl=118 time=12.344 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: seq=1 ttl=118 time=10.730 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: seq=2 ttl=118 time=12.080 ms
```

Mount a pendrive in `/mnt/pendrive` and make sure it has an archive file called `file.tar` (needed to generate USB read/write):

```
$ sudo mkdir -p /mnt/pendrive
$ sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt/pendrive
$ ls /mnt/pendrive/file.tar
-rw-rw-r-- 1 torizon torizon 1011353600 Dec  8 19:30 /mnt/pendrive/file.tar
```


# Run the stress-tests container

Run the following command to execute the `stress-tests` container:

```
$ docker run --rm -d --name stress-tests --privileged -v /dev:/dev -v /tmp:/tmp -v /mnt/pendrive/:/mnt/pendrive torizon/stress-tests:$CT_TAG_STRESS_TESTS
```

Check if the stress tests started successfully:

```
$ docker logs stress-tests 
Setting up stress tests...
RT stress tests started successfully!
```


# Run the rt-tests container

Run the following command to execute the `rt-tests` container and start measuring the latency:

```
$ docker run --rm -it --name rt-tests --cap-add=sys_nice --cap-add=ipc_lock --cap-add=sys_rawio --ulimit rtprio=99 --device-cgroup-rule='c 10:* rmw' -v /dev:/dev -v /tmp:/tmp torizon/rt-tests:$CT_TAG_RT_TESTS
```

The tests will run for at most 12 hours, but can be interrupted at any time by pressing CTRL-C.

After the tests are finished, stop the `stress-tests` container:

```
$ docker stop stress-tests
```


# Analysing the results

A summary of latency measurements will be available in `/tmp/latency-summary.log`:

```
$ cat /tmp/latency-summary.log
# /dev/cpu_dma_latency set to 0us
# Histogram
# Total: 000297214 000297199 000297189 000297179
# Min Latencies: 00005 00005 00005 00005
# Avg Latencies: 00023 00026 00023 00021
# Max Latencies: 00081 00085 00077 00076
# Histogram Overflows: 00000 00000 00000 00000
# Histogram Overflow at cycle number:
# Thread 0:
# Thread 1:
# Thread 2:
# Thread 3:
```

A latency plot from cyclictest histogram data will be available in `/tmp/latency-plot.png`.


# Running rt-tests on a non-PREEMPT_RT version of TorizonCore

Running the `rt-tests` container on a non-PREEMPT_RT version of TorizonCore may be useful to compare the results with the PREEMPT_RT version. But if you try to run, the execution might fail:

```
$ docker run --rm -it --name rt-tests --cap-add=sys_nice --cap-add=ipc_lock --cap-add=sys_rawio --ulimit rtprio=99 --device-cgroup-rule='c 10:* rmw' -v /dev:/dev -v /tmp:/tmp torizon/rt-tests:$CT_TAG_RT_TESTS
Unable to change scheduling policy!
Probably missing capabilities, either run as root or increase RLIMIT_RTPRIO limits.
ERROR: cyclictest failed
```

That is because `CONFIG_RT_GROUP_SCHED` may be enabled on non-PREEMPT_RT versions of TorizonCore, and a cgroups configuration is required to run real-time tasks.

So if you want to run the `rt-tests` container on a non-PREEMPT_RT version of TorizonCore, run the following commands:

```
sudo sh -c "echo 950000 > /sys/fs/cgroup/cpu,cpuacct/docker/cpu.rt_runtime_us"
docker run --rm -it --name rt-tests --cpu-rt-runtime=950000 --cap-add=sys_nice --cap-add=ipc_lock --cap-add=sys_rawio --ulimit rtprio=99 --device-cgroup-rule='c 10:* rmw' -v /dev:/dev -v /tmp:/tmp torizon/rt-tests:$CT_TAG_RT_TESTS
```

Commit message:

rt-tests: Add DURATION variable to control test duration
Running the test for 12h is too long in some cases. It would be better if
the duration of the test could be set from outside. With the new environment
variable DURATION a user can control the value of the parameter `-D` of
cyclictest and set the desired value.

Signed-off-by: Carlos Henrique Lima Melara <carlos.melara@toradex.com>

rt-validation/README.md, after:

# rt-validation

Containers to validate real-time (`PREEMPT_RT`) support in TorizonCore.

The `stress-tests` container will run stress tests (CPU, memory, I/O) in the device.

The `rt-tests` container will run `cyclictest` and generate a report of the measured latency.


# Prepare the device for the tests

Make sure you are running a `PREEMPT_RT` version of TorizonCore:
```
$ cat /etc/os-release | grep PREEMPT_RT
NAME="Torizoncore Upstream with PREEMPT_RT"
PRETTY_NAME="Torizoncore Upstream with PREEMPT_RT 5.1.0-devel-20201216+build.152 (dunfell)"
```

Make sure the device is connected to the internet (needed to generate network load):

```
$ ping -c 3 8.8.8.8
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8): 56 data bytes
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: seq=0 ttl=118 time=12.344 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: seq=1 ttl=118 time=10.730 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: seq=2 ttl=118 time=12.080 ms
```

Mount a pendrive in `/mnt/pendrive` and make sure it has an archive file called `file.tar` (needed to generate USB read/write):

```
$ sudo mkdir -p /mnt/pendrive
$ sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt/pendrive
$ ls /mnt/pendrive/file.tar
-rw-rw-r-- 1 torizon torizon 1011353600 Dec  8 19:30 /mnt/pendrive/file.tar
```


# Run the stress-tests container

Run the following command to execute the `stress-tests` container:

```
$ docker run --rm -d --name stress-tests --privileged -v /dev:/dev -v /tmp:/tmp -v /mnt/pendrive/:/mnt/pendrive torizon/stress-tests:$CT_TAG_STRESS_TESTS
```

Check if the stress tests started successfully:

```
$ docker logs stress-tests
Setting up stress tests...
RT stress tests started successfully!
```


# Run the rt-tests container

Run the following command to execute the `rt-tests` container and start measuring the latency:

```
$ docker run --rm -it --name rt-tests --cap-add=sys_nice --cap-add=ipc_lock --cap-add=sys_rawio --ulimit rtprio=99 --device-cgroup-rule='c 10:* rmw' -v /dev:/dev -v /tmp:/tmp torizon/rt-tests:$CT_TAG_RT_TESTS
```

The tests will run for at most 12 hours, but can be interrupted at any time by
pressing CTRL-C. You can specify a different length of the test run in seconds
by passing the environment variable *DURATION* to the container (with
`-e DURATION=…`); for other units append `m` for minutes, `h` for hours and `d`
for days.

After the tests are finished, stop the `stress-tests` container:

```
$ docker stop stress-tests
```


# Analysing the results

A summary of latency measurements will be available in `/tmp/latency-summary.log`:

```
$ cat /tmp/latency-summary.log
# /dev/cpu_dma_latency set to 0us
# Histogram
# Total: 000297214 000297199 000297189 000297179
# Min Latencies: 00005 00005 00005 00005
# Avg Latencies: 00023 00026 00023 00021
# Max Latencies: 00081 00085 00077 00076
# Histogram Overflows: 00000 00000 00000 00000
# Histogram Overflow at cycle number:
# Thread 0:
# Thread 1:
# Thread 2:
# Thread 3:
```

A latency plot from cyclictest histogram data will be available in `/tmp/latency-plot.png`.


# Running rt-tests on a non-PREEMPT_RT version of TorizonCore

Running the `rt-tests` container on a non-PREEMPT_RT version of TorizonCore may be useful to compare the results with the PREEMPT_RT version. But if you try to run, the execution might fail:

```
$ docker run --rm -it --name rt-tests --cap-add=sys_nice --cap-add=ipc_lock --cap-add=sys_rawio --ulimit rtprio=99 --device-cgroup-rule='c 10:* rmw' -v /dev:/dev -v /tmp:/tmp torizon/rt-tests:$CT_TAG_RT_TESTS
Unable to change scheduling policy!
Probably missing capabilities, either run as root or increase RLIMIT_RTPRIO limits.
ERROR: cyclictest failed
```

That is because `CONFIG_RT_GROUP_SCHED` may be enabled on non-PREEMPT_RT versions of TorizonCore, and a cgroups configuration is required to run real-time tasks.

So if you want to run the `rt-tests` container on a non-PREEMPT_RT version of TorizonCore, run the following commands:

```
sudo sh -c "echo 950000 > /sys/fs/cgroup/cpu,cpuacct/docker/cpu.rt_runtime_us"
docker run --rm -it --name rt-tests --cpu-rt-runtime=950000 --cap-add=sys_nice --cap-add=ipc_lock --cap-add=sys_rawio --ulimit rtprio=99 --device-cgroup-rule='c 10:* rmw' -v /dev:/dev -v /tmp:/tmp torizon/rt-tests:$CT_TAG_RT_TESTS
```
